---
template: blog-post
title: My first post
slug: /my_first_post
date: 2022-01-27 20:10
description: This is a post about me
featuredImage: /assets/fredrick-tendong-hvyepjyehdq-unsplash.jpg
---
<!--StartFragment-->

# **You Can Never Have Too Much SASS**

Are you tired of repetition and continuously repeating a line of CSS coding over and over? SASS or Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets, a styling language is your answer to that, it helps coders like yourself reduce that repetition a lot while being able to maintain all the hardships of the traditional CSS. Although there are many other options for preprocessors, SASS comes out on top as the most favorable. An easy-to-use preprocessor that can help web developers working on scale styling and large-scale projects, making your coding faster and more efficient.

By definition a CSS preprocessor is a scripting language that extends CSS by allowing developers to write code in one language and then compile it into CSS, it will turn CSS code with minor syntax variations into regular CSS3. One of the easiest preprocessors to use SASS makes CSS a lot more manageable. To use SASS, you must first have ruby installed. Its main benefits are that it allows the coder to create variables, nested rules, mixin functions, mathematical calculations, and splits large CSS files into different files to make them more manageable. This in return makes the coding go more smoothly. One of the most important things is that SASS has two types of syntaxes, files with. SASS extension and files with the. SCSS extension. With the .sCSS file when coding it will be converted to a CSS file. Now not only will you be able to code more easily but the file gets converted into CSS. Moving onto variables, being able to declare them shows how advanced yet easy SASS is, it allows users to create and set variables for different colors and fonts and use them in any file. Onto nesting, this is a necessary feature SASS uses because it lets the coder modify and maintain it in a way that reduces the amount of extra coding you would have originally had to do. The amount of efficiency that goes with it makes the coding more maintainable.

Another interesting feature that SASS implements is the mixin function, this is a selector that can accept parameters. It is declared as @mixin and what it does is that it lets you create groups of CSS declarations that you want to keep using and reuse them throughout your site. It also accepts passing values as well. With the mixin feature, it helps you keep your declarations all in order and convenient for your usage. When SASS splits large CSS files into smaller ones these are called partials. They’re snippets of that very same CSS file making it easier to maintain. This feature here stands out the most with SASS because most of the time larger files can be overwhelming to scroll through. Keep in mind there are in a lot of cases over thousands of lines of codes and to be able to keep up this feature makes it somewhat stress-free. No more having to constantly scroll up and down to find the piece of code that you’re looking for. These code snippets will relieve some of the stress and amount of coding you’re viewing in the CSS file.

SASS contains many built-in functions that allow the manipulation of CSS codes. A good example would be the Math function, usually used and supported in another programming such as addition, subtraction, division, and multiplication can be used in CSS coding. These features put SASS ahead of other preprocessors and help coders such as ourselves be swifter and more efficient when tackling projects whether they be small or large in scale. SASS is one of those preprocessors you need in your inventory no matter what. Web and app development has never been made much easier than this, and it is only going to get better from here. The amount of innovation in this preprocessor just shows to go how efficient it can make your CSS coding.

As mentioned before there are other preprocessors other than SASS, there is less and stylus. Stylus was actually modeled after SASS and is considered to be dynamic and flexible with its language and syntax and just like SASS, it has features such as functions, mixins, and variables. Next up is less which stands for Leaner stylesheets and just like the other two it has many built-in features but is stricter with its syntax and is more similar to CSS in this case. In some ways both stylus and less are like SASS with bits and pieces taken from it. But in the end, it seems as though SASS is the winner in this case when it comes to being the better preprocessor. Each preprocessor has its pros and cons in its own right, and by comparing them all you can see which one is a better standout. SASS is a tool that is great for helping web developers and their web pages, by enhancing their basic programming functions and it is easy and quick to learn. SASS implements many things and helps web developers stay organized and efficient without having to change too much of their own way of coding when they originally used CSS. It helps coders who are used to and proficient in CSS in a way that makes their code more efficient, the saying goes work smarter not harder when it comes to coding.   

<!--EndFragment-->

<!--StartFragment-->

# **Who Wrote this Script?**

 When reading the title, you may be wondering what it means, script is a kind of typography that can be used for web development. They have a very fluid-like stroke to their letters for example being like this “script”.  As you can see the word looks very fluid as if almost written in cursive but it’s not quite that so to speak. Even so, this type of typography is usually seen in things such as old letters written with a brush or a book to emphasize thoughts or flashbacks. Script can be used for almost anything, it has a very appealing look to it that catches the eye of whoever is reading. As for web development, it can be used to make a website look intriguing and engaging.

To start off what is typography? Typography is defined as the art and skill of placing type in a way that makes written language visible, readable, and appealing when exhibited. Typefaces, point sizes, line lengths, line-spacing, and letter-spacing, as well as changing the space between pairs of letters, are all part of the type of arrangement process. In the end, typography’s purpose is to make it easy for users to read certain text information. Script is one of the five basic classifications of typography. The others being serif, sans serif, monospaced, and display, these other ones are just as conveniently used as Script. Each one has its own benefits in web development and in most cases are all used at the same time or used with one another.  For example, serif and sans serif can be used for titles and logos, and script can be used for something such as headlines.

Script is one of the unique kinds of typography that is still used today, it introduces certain elements, style, structure, and emotions to its words. The script typefaces can range from formal to very casual, the different kinds of scripts are casual, calligraphic, blackletter, and handwriting. Each script has its own unique way of being written/typed. Casual has a more brush-like appearance with stronger strokes and letters are sometimes connected, while calligraphic emulates hand-lettered and have high contrast. Blackletter is very formal with strong contrast on strokes, and finally, handwriting is casual and mimics modern handwriting. Choosing the right one is important because it relies on the reader and their interest in the information presented. An example of blackletter would be the New York Times headline, it has a classic and unique look to it in a way that keeps a person engaged and catches their attention. Script has been around for a while and has only just been expanding since then. It can be more commonly seen in works such as newspapers or old-timey webpages or even history webpages to emphasize the olden times for some. Below is an example of JavaScript from <https://www.w3schools.com/js/tryit.asp?filename=tryjs_intro_show>

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>                                                                                                                                                                <body>

<h2>What Can JavaScript Do?</h2>

 Scripting in web development can make a webpage more dynamic and eye appealing. Scripting is a commonly used component of web development. It allows a website to create a more dynamic and complex web page by taking advantage of the existing capabilities of HTML, letting users become more interactive and familiar with the website. With this in mind, they are and practice that goes behind this makes it suitable for web development as people we like to be captured and engrossed into what we read. We are fascinated by simple things such as colors and designs. With script the designs used keep the reader pulled in to finish what they’re looking at. This kind of design can elevate a design from ok to amazing, in a way that tries to make the webpage its best.

 Typography is more than just choosing a few beautiful fonts. It also plays a vital role in the design of the website and its overall tone. Scripting just like any other typography has its own unique appearance that helps capture the reader and display itself in a way that separated it from others. A well-designed and consistent typography can help build trust and establish a strong following among whom you’re trying to appeal to. In the end, good typography can be the very difference on whether someone stays on your website or not or for how long. If it is visually stimulating then that can be the key success to how someone views your site, and typography plays its role in that very well. It’s all about choosing the right typography and scripting has its own unique personality to bring a webpage to life.

<!--EndFragment-->